Excise taxes and other levies technical information
The CRA publishes a broad selection of technical publications that provide more in-depth information on administrative and policy aspects of the following taxes and other levies:

excise taxes imposed under the Excise Tax Act on certain petroleum products, fuel-inefficient vehicles and air conditioners designed for automobiles
the tax imposed under the Excise Tax Act on insurance premiums
the air travellers security charge (ATSC) imposed under the Air Travellers Security Charge Act
To request a ruling or interpretation or to make a technical enquiry on the application of excise taxes, the tax on insurance premiums or the ATSC, go to Contact Information – Excise Duties, Excise Taxes,  Fuel Charge and Air Travellers Security Charge.

Following are technical publications and other helpful information related to excise taxes, the tax on insurance premiums and the ATSC.

Excise taxes and other levies notices

Announcements about changes to the various legislations and the CRA policy, as well as to the application and administration of excise taxes, the tax on insurance premiums and the ATSC.

Excise taxes and other levies memoranda

Detailed technical information on the application of excise taxes, the tax on insurance premiums and the ATSC to various topics, under the Excise Tax Act or the Air Travellers Security Charge Act.

ATSC rates

Set out in the Air Travellers Security Charge Act.

Excise tax rates

Set out in the schedules to the Excise Tax Act.

Questions and Answers - Air Travellers Security Charge (ATSC)

Excise taxes and other levies policy statements

The CRA’s interpretation of specific issues or legislative provisions related to excise taxes, the tax on insurance premiums and the ATSC.

Excise and GST/HST News

Quarterly newsletter highlighting recent developments in the application and administration of excise taxes, excise duties, the GST/HST, the ATSC, the fuel charge and any other levy. All new excise and GST/HST publications are listed in this newsletter.

Softwood lumber notices to exporters

The Softwood Lumber Agreement, 2006 expired on October 12, 2015. For more information related to late filing, corrections or appeals under this program, go to Softwood lumber products export charge or call 1-800-935-0313.
